[Are you a junior developer?](https://jg.gg/2020/11/23/are-you-a-junior-developer/)


## Summary

This article provides a very well-rounded overview of what defines a junior level developer and what is actually expected of them. I feel like many people who go into college pursuing a computer science degree think that they'll learn the technical skills and knowledge required to be a good programmer, and that four years of classes in extensive topics will almost fully prepare them to enter fields like software engineering after graduation (me included). Obviously, that is not the case - working in a corporate environment is a very different beast than simply doing school projects and tests. The vast amount of foreign technologies and tools not taught in schools is somewhat daunting to me - often, I'm wondering what exactly I should be expecting on the job. This article helped clarify that - being a junior developer isn't defined by being an expert in one specific set of tools, but rather general technical ability that can solve a wide variety of specific problems. 

In fact, this idea of specificity is probably the most interesting part of the article. Gabbard points out that the role of the junior developer is to solve very specific problems - when issues are more ambiguous, like designing new application features, and knowing whether or not something is possible from performance constraints, it is expected that more senior developers will resolve them. Instead, Gabbard offers some key points of advice: one, to produce good-quality code, fast, in order to learn new things as well as learn from their mistakes during code review. Hard skills and the ability to solve a variety of problems is what will boost one's path upward. He also mentions not to use auto-complete IDEs and to not focus on concepts like people and project management. Only after being able to understand tasks well and produce results fast, as well as beginning to understand their roles within projects and how their code fits in, do junior developers begin to rise to mid/senior level. 

Ethan Cheng: I also thought that taking classes and completing a CS degree at NYU would prepare me for the fields like software engineering, but have come to realize that these fields require a lot more hands on work and practical experience.  I was worried I would not be prepared enough for an entry level job because of what I thought they may expect of me, but this article helped me understand that the big, complex projects will most likely not be my responsibility.  Rather, I would be assigned more fitting tasks and directed problem that a junior developer would be expected to be able to handle.  
